While working on this project, we learned how to use Android Studio and how to create an Android app using Java in Android Studio. This process was new to us and we learned how to use the libraries that Android provides as well as it’s syntax. We also learned how to use GitHub for source control and working together on a single project. Programming-wise, we learned how to implement a database using SQLite and how to retrieve data from it across classes. Figuring out the best way to store, manipulate, and retrieve data was new to us, but we figured that it was the best way to get our app working the way we wanted.	
We enjoyed using Android Studio to make our idea come to life. It was fun designing the user interface and figuring out how each part of our app would come together and work with the other parts to create a cohesive end result. It was also fun to implement features of Java which we did not have the opportunity to use in programming classes at UW and learn how to use the many libraries that Android has to offer. Though it may not sound fun, overcoming obstacles with our code was also enjoyable because it encouraged teamwork and motivated us to research ways for us to tackle those problems. We also enjoyed 
Starting the project was challenging. Our group had trouble getting programs such as Android Studio to work. Additionally, every group member was contributing good ideas, so selecting the ones which were most achievable was not easy. Just as we started gaining momentum, we ran into other roadblocks as well. Since our app would have to process a substantial amount of data, we tried our best to make the code as efficient as possible. This task was not easy since as our project grew, even a small change in one area meant multiple changes in another. Much thought was put into what type of data we should store in our database. We wanted to be both efficient but have enough to compute meaningful statistics as well. Another challenge we ran into when working on our database was ensuring that all parts of our app had access to the data they needed.
Online resources were incredibly helpful for our learning, especially the documentation for Android Studio. Since everyone in our group had either never used Android Studio before or were relatively new to it, being able to search up how to use it helped us greatly.
